## 13 Standardised Protocols

For compliance with security principle of economy of mechanism, X-Road member organizations are not required to implement security-dependent methods for data exchange; they are able to connect to any number of service providers via the following standardized protocols that ensure security-supportive functional consistency. For details of X-Road protocols, refer to the Technical Architecture \[[ARC-G](#Ref_ARC-G)\]. Summaries of the protocols are as follows:

  * Message Protocol is used by service client and service provider information systems for communicating with the X-Road Security Server.
  * Message Transport Protocol is used by Security Server to exchange service requests and service responses. The protocol is based on HTTPS and uses mutual certificate-based TLS authentication.
  * Configuration Download Protocol is a synchronous protocol that is offered by the Central Server. Configuration clients download the generated global configuration files from the Central Server. It is used by configuration clients such as Security Servers and configuration proxies.
  * Service Metadata Protocol may be used by the service client information systems to gather information about the X-Road instance and may be used to find X-Road members.
  * Download Signed Document Protocol may be used by the information systems to download signed containers from the Security Server's message log. In addition, the service provides a convenience method for downloading global configuration that may be used to verify the signed containers.
  * Management Services Protocol is used by Security Servers to perform management tasks such as registering a Security Server client or deleting an authentication certificate. The Management Services Protocol is implemented by two web services: Member Management Web Service and Registration Web Service. The Member Management Web Service is implemented as a standard X-Road service that is offered by the organization managing the X-Road instance. The Member Management Web Service is accessed by Security Servers through the management Security Server. Instead, the Registration Web Service is implemented as a separate web service that is accessed directly by Security Servers. Both web services translate the incoming SOAP requests to REST calls for the Central Server management REST API. 
  * Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) is used by the Security Servers to query the validity information about the signing and authentication certificates. OCSP protocol is a synchronous protocol that is offered by the OCSP responder belonging to a certification authority. In X-Road, each Security Server is responsible for downloading and caching the validity information about its certificates. The OCSP responses are sent to the other Security Servers as part of the message transport protocol to ensure that the Security Servers do not need to discover the OCSP service used by the other party. 
  * Time-Stamping Protocol is used by Security Servers to ensure long-term proof value of  exchanged messages. The Security Servers log all messages and their signatures. These logs are periodically time-stamped to create long-term proof. Time-stamping is used in an asynchronous manner, so temporary unavailability of the time-stamping service does not directly affect the X-Road message exchange.
  * Automated Certificate Management Environment \[[ACME](#Ref_ACME)\] protocol is used by the Security Servers to partly automate certificate management of the authentication and sign certificates.