### 1.2 REST

In the REST architecture, clients send requests to retrieve, modify or delete resources. Servers send responses to these
requests. In general a request consists of

- HTTP verb, which defines the kind of operation to perform
- header, which allows the client to pass along information about the request
- path to a resource
- an optional message body containing data

Typically four different HTTP verbs are used to interact with the resources in REST system

- GET - retrieve a resource
- POST - create new resource
- PUT - update a resource
- DELETE - delete a resource

The most common headers used in RESTful communication are `Accept` and `Content-Type`. By including the `Accept` header
in the request the client specifies the content types it is able to read. When reading the request, the server should
respect the `Accept` header and provide the response in the specified format. The server sets the `Content-Type` header
in the response message to reveal the actual type of content.

The requests need to specify the path to the resource it is operating on. There are no strict rules how the paths have
to be defined, but there are commonly used recommendations. In RESTful APIs, the paths should be designed logically and
consistently so that the operations are easy to use for the client. For example a
request `GET https://petstore.niis.org/v2/pets/1124` will read a certain pet's information
and `POST https://petstore.niis.org/v2/pets` will create a new pet.

The response indicates the result of the operation with HTTP status code. The expected status code of success varies
depending on the requested operation.

- GET - 200 OK
- POST - 201 CREATED
- PUT - 200 OK
- DELETE - 204 NO CONTENT

Also when the operation fails, the reason is indicated with HTTP status. Some of the most common error codes are listed
below.

- 400 BAD REQUEST
- 404 NOT FOUND
- 500 INTERNAL SERVER ERROR