### 5.1 Viewing the Configuration Settings

Access rights: Security Officer, System Administrator

The Global Configuration view consists of three sub-tabs.
- The Internal Configuration view. The internal configuration is distributed by the Central Server to the Security Servers of the local X-Road infrastructure. The information needed to download and verify the internal configuration is included in the internal configuration anchor, which must be distributed to the Security Server administrators and uploaded to the Security Servers. Along with the internal configuration anchor, the anchor file hash value must be distributed. The hash value is used by the Security Server administrators to verify the integrity of the anchor file.
- The External Configuration view. The external configuration is distributed by the Central Server to the federation partners (either to the Security Servers directly or through a configuration proxy). The information needed to download and verify the external configuration is included in the external configuration anchor, which must be distributed to the federation partner’s Central Server (or configuration proxy) administrators and uploaded to the Central Server (or configuration proxy). Along with the external configuration anchor, the anchor file hash value must be distributed. The hash value is used by the federation partners to verify the integrity of the anchor file.
- The Trusted Anchors view. A trusted anchor is the configuration anchor of the configuration source(s) distributing the external configuration of a federation partner. Upon loading the trusted anchor into the Central Server, the anchor is included into the internal configuration, allowing the Security Servers to download the external configuration of a federation partner as well as the internal configuration of the local X-Road infrastructure.