### 6.5 Viewing the Management Request Details

Access rights: Registration Officer

To open the detail view, follow these steps.
1. In the Management Requests tab.
2. Select from the table a request and click Id field.
3. Uncheck "Show only pending requests" checkbox, if you want to see all requests.

There are three data sections in the view.

1. Information about the request.
  - Request ID – the identifier of the request;
  - Received – the date and time of saving the request in the Central Server;
  - Source – the source of the request. The request can be either submitted through a Security Server (SECURITY_SERVER) or automatically generated in the Central Server (CENTER);
  - Status (only for registration requests) – the state of the request, see Figure 1;
  - Comments – the source event for the automatic generation of the request. For example, when a Security Server is deleted from the Central Server, deletion requests are automatically generated for all the clients and authentication certificates registered for this Security Server. In the "Comments" field of the generated requests, a comment with the server identifier is added in such case. This field is left empty for requests that are not automatically generated by the Central Server.
2. Information about the Security Server associated with the request.
  - Owner Name – the name of the Security Server owner (X-Road member);
  - Owner Class – the member class of the Security Server owner;
  - Owner Code – the member code of the Security Server owner;
  - Server Code – the code of the Security Server;
  - Address – the address of the Security Server. The field is filled only for authentication certificate registration and Security Server address change requests.
3. Information about the request object – that is, the client or the authentication certificate being registered or deleted.

  For the authentication certificate:
  - CA – the name of the certification authority that issued the certificate;
  - Serial Number – the serial number of the certificate;
  - Subject – all attributes of the certificate's Subject field;
  - Expires – the expiration date of the certificate;

  For the Security Server client:

  - Name – the name of the X-Road member managing the subsystem;
  - Class – the member class of the X-Road member managing the subsystem;
  - Code – the member code of the X-Road member managing the subsystem;
  - Subsystem – the code of the subsystem.