### 2.10 CONFIGURATION_SOURCES

Configuration source that the Central Server uses to distribute the global configuration. Stores (with associated configuration_signing_keys table) all the data necessary to generate configuration anchors for the Central Server. The configuration distributed by the source can be either internal configuration or external configuration. The internal configuration is distributed to Security Servers of this X-Road instance. The external configuration is distributed to the other X-Road instances (federation partners).

The configuration source is associated with several configuration signing keys. When generating a configuration anchor for the source, all the keys are included. One of the keys is marked active. Technically, the active key (in configuration_signing_keys table) is referred by the attribute active_key_id. The active key is used for signing configuration distributed by this source.

In an HA setup, each node of the cluster uses separate keys for signing configuration, and configuration anchors contain entries for each node of the cluster.
The record is created when the configuration source tab (either for internal or external configuration) is opened in the UI for the first time. The configuration source tab can be opened for viewing or editing configuration anchor or signing keys information for the configuration source. The record is modified when signing keys information of the configuration source is changed and a new configuration anchor is generated by the system. Also, the record is modified when an X-Road security officer generates a new configuration anchor in the user interface. The record is never deleted.

#### 2.10.1 Indexes

| Name        | Columns           |
|:----------- |:-----------------:|
| index_configuration_sources_on_active_key_id | active_key_id |